Firebase Hosting Cheatsheet
---------------------------
by jaegra
github.io/jaegra

1. Make sure you have Node JS installed. Check Node version:
    >node -v

2. Make sure you have firebase-tools installed. Check firebase version:
    >firebase -V 

    **To install firebase-tools: >npm install -g firebase-tools   

3. Log in to Firebase from your Google account. Note: If you're already logged in to a Google account, and it's not the one you want, you'll need to log out:
    >firebase logout

    >firebase login

    This will take you to a Google log in screen where you can select the Google account you want.

4. Initiate your project. From the directory that includes your project files:
    >firebase init

    It will ask you a series of questions. Scroll down with your arrow keys. Hit space to select. And then enter.

    Select Y on directory (assuming you're in the current directory).
    Select hosting.
    Select Use an existing project.
    Select the correct project name.
    Select public directory. Default is public. That should be fine if you don't have a reason to change it.
    Single-page app. Select N for a normal website.

    You should get a message that the project is initialized. And in your local project directory, you should see some new firebase-related files.

5. In your local project directory, you should see a new folder, called public (assuming you accepted the default filename.)
    Move all your web files into the public folder. You can delete the default dummy index.html file that's already in the public folder.
    Note there's also a default 404.html file provided. You may want to edit or replace it to brand it for your site.

    No need to move the firebase-related files (or the .gitignore file).

6. Test your site by previewing your site locally.
    >firebase serve

7. Deploy your site to Firebase hosting.
    >firebase deploy

You should see the url for your project in the terminal. You can also find it on your Firebase hosting dashboard.

8. Link your Firebase project to your domain name.
    From the Firebase dashboard, click on the Add custom domain button.
    Enter the domain name.
    Copy the txt record.
    Go to the DNS for your domain name. 
    (I use NameSilo, so the directions below are specific to them.)
    Click on the domain name.
    Select manage DNS.
    Select the record type you want to create: TXT/SPF
    Paste the Firebase txt into the txt area. Change the TTL to 3600 (smallest NameSilo allows) to make the change theoretically happen faster (3600=1hr). Then Submit.
    Delete all the A records and Cname, etc.
    Click the Verify button at Firebase until it verifies.
    Add the A records to your DNS that Firebase provides.
    Remember to cover both www and no www versions.
    It may take a few minutes for the DNS to propagate from your domain registrar to Firebase.
    It also takes a bit longer for the SSL certificate to get attached, so you may see a "site not safe" warning for a few hours while that happens.
    






